---
title: 'parallel @ Savannah: GNU Parallel 20260422 (''Artemis II'') released'
url: https://savannah.gnu.org/news/?id=10886
date: '2026-04-22'
author: ''
feed_url: https://planet.gnu.org/rss20.xml
---
GNU Parallel 20260422 ('Artemis II') has been released. It is available for download at: lbry://@GnuParallel:4 Quote of the month: It is a fantastic tool for decades! -- Ops_Mechanic@reddit New in this release: Remote jobs are spawned via pipe to perl, so environment can be bigger. This is a major rewrite. --pipe-part -a supports -L/-N if zextract is installed. --pipe-part -a supports .gz, .bz2, .zst-files if zextract is installed. Comments in code is redone. Bug fixes and man page updates. GNU Parallel - For people who live life in the parallel lane. If you like GNU Parallel record a video testimonial: Say who you are, what you use GNU Parallel for, how it helps you, and what you like most about it. Include a command that uses GNU Parallel if you feel like it. About GNU Parallel GNU Parallel is a shell tool for executing jobs in parallel using one or more computers. A job can be a single command or a small script that has to be run for each of the lines in the input. The typical input is a list of files, a list of hosts, a list of users, a list of URLs, or a list of tables. A job can also be a command that reads from a pipe. GNU Parallel can then split the input and pipe it into commands in parallel. If you use xargs and tee today you will find GNU Parallel very easy to use as GNU Parallel is written to have the same options as xargs. If you write loops in shell, you will find GNU Parallel may be able to replace most of the loops and make them run faster by running several jobs in parallel. GNU Parallel can even replace nested loops. GNU Parallel makes sure output from the commands is the same output as you would get had you run the commands sequentially. This makes it possible to use output from GNU Parallel as input for other programs. For example you can run this to convert all jpeg files into png and gif files and have a progress bar: parallel --bar convert {1} {1.}.{2} ::: *.jpg ::: png gif Or you can generate big, medium, and small thumbnails of all jpeg files in sub dirs: find . -name '*.jpg' | parallel convert -geometry {2} {1} {1//}/thumb{2}_{1/} :::: - ::: 50 100 200 You can find more about GNU Parallel at: http://www.gnu ... rg/s/parallel/ You can install GNU Parallel in just 10 seconds with: $ (wget -O - pi.dk/3 || lynx -source pi.dk/3 || curl pi.dk/3/ || \ fetch -o - http://pi.dk/3 ) > install.sh $ sha1sum install.sh | grep c555f616391c6f7c28bf938044f4ec50 12345678 c555f616 391c6f7c 28bf9380 44f4ec50 $ md5sum install.sh | grep 707275363428aa9e9a136b9a7296dfe4 70727536 3428aa9e 9a136b9a 7296dfe4 $ sha512sum install.sh | grep b24bfe249695e0236f6bc7de85828fe1f08f4259 83320d89 f56698ec 77454856 895edc3e aa16feab 2757966e 5092ef2d 661b8b45 b24bfe24 9695e023 6f6bc7de 85828fe1 f08f4259 6ce5480a 5e1571b2 8b722f21 $ bash install.sh Watch the intro video on http://www.youtub ... L284C9FF2488BC6D1 Walk through the tutorial (man parallel_tutorial). Your command line will love you for it. When using programs that use GNU Parallel to process data for publication please cite: O. Tange (2018): GNU Parallel 2018, March 2018, https://doi.org/1 ... 81/zenodo.1146014 . If you like GNU Parallel: Give a demo at your local user group/team/colleagues Post the intro videos on Reddit/Diaspora*/forums/blogs/ Identi.ca/Google+/Twitter/Facebook/Linkedin/mailing lists Get the merchandise https://gnuparall ... igns/gnu-parallel Request or write a review for your favourite blog or magazine Request or build a package for your favourite distribution (if it is not already there) Invite me for your next conference If you use programs that use GNU Parallel for research: Please cite GNU Parallel in you publications (use --citation) If GNU Parallel saves you money: (Have your company) donate to FSF https://my.f ... .org/donate/ About GNU SQL GNU sql aims to give a simple, unified interface for accessing databases through all the different databases' command line clients. So far the focus has been on giving a common way to specify login information (protocol, username, password, hostname, and port number), size (database and table size), and running queries. The database is addressed using a DBURL. If commands are left out you will get that database's interactive shell. When using GNU SQL for a publication please cite: O. Tange (2011): GNU SQL - A Command Line Tool for Accessing Different Databases Using DBURLs, ;login: The USENIX Magazine, April 2011:29-32. About GNU Niceload GNU niceload slows down a program when the computer load average (or other system activity) is above a certain limit. When the limit is reached the program will be suspended for some time. If the limit is a soft limit the program will be allowed to run for short amounts of time before being suspended again. If the limit is a hard limit the program will only be allowed to run when the system is below the limit.
